We've said this once and we'll say it again,
do not use UTM tags on your internal links on your website.
It introduces unnecessary session breaks and it
also breaks the chain of attribution for your marketing efforts.
You may still want to track calls to action on your website and other kinds of
merchandising activities that are driving
transactions from within your own site and key pages.
There are a couple of alternatives to using
UTM tags on your internal links which do not break the session,
and these alternatives are internal promotions and custom events.
So, let's talk about internal promotions first.
These are part of the enhanced e-commerce tracking feature
in Google Analytics and they allow you to,
when you have say a banner promotion on your own website or
even just a link to a specific special offer you may be running,
or you may be doing some internal merchandising to special products sets.
When somebody clicks on those key links to a product for example,
then you can send that along with the e-commerce data for say a product view.
You can also send the internal promotion data which will then
allow you to attribute shopping behaviors to that internal promotion.
So, for example, if you did have, let's say,
a summer sale banner on your own website on your homepage,
when somebody clicks on that,
you would then capture the internal promotion summer sale, 2018.
This allows you to also preserve the chain of
attribution to whatever marketing source brought that person into
your website while seeing what kind of internal promotion drove action on your website.
Similarly, if you have calls to action on your website,
clicks to lead inquiry forms or a button to sign up for an account today,
and you want to know if those buttons and those calls to
action are actually generating interest,
or driving behavior that means success for your company,
you can do that with custom events.
That's not the only use for custom events,
but custom events are quite flexible and is one of the very good uses for those events.
Custom events can help you track key button and CTA clicks on your site,
whether or not you use enhanced e-commerce tracking.
In an upcoming lesson,
Eric will discuss techniques for seeing
the supports that events provide to your conversion efforts.
So, let's take a look at some internal promotion data to see how it will display,
and we'll give you some sense of how that might be used as
an alternative to those campaign tags on internal links.
We'll get into the enhanced e-commerce reporting in greater detail later in this lesson,
but take a look here under the marketing section of
the e-commerce tab within Google Analytics.
We can see an internal promotion name and then a variety of
shopping and conversion behavior and metrics associated with those promotion names.
So if it to say for now that here you can see, for example,
the drink where internal promotion on the Google merchandise site was viewed
approximately 29,000 times and have a handful of clicks.
You can see the click-through rate for that promotion as well as
how many transactions that drove and the revenue value thereof.
So, this could be really valuable information, and again,
it does not have to overwrite your campaign tracking in
order to get this kind of information about your internal promotions.
This is an important option to keep in mind.
Along similar lines, custom events allows you to track
some key behaviors on your site that are driving value,
but you wouldn't want them to overwrite your campaign attribution.
This could be, for example,
a call to action on the website that drives people to a lead generation form,
or some other deeper content on your site.